##Regression Test

####./Inputs/: folder contains atomic input traces

####./TL_formula/: folder contains TL formulas

####./results/: folder for regression test result

#  Set Up
### Build R2U2: 
- Navigate to the directory R2U2_SW/R2U2_C and run the command “make”.
### Generate Files: 
- Navigate to test/TL_Formula and run the command "python3 genFormulas.py -m".
- Navigate to test/Inputs and run the command “python3 genInputs.py -m”. 
- Navigate to test/Oracle and run the command “python3 genOracle.py -m”.
### Generate Plots (Optional):
- You can optionally create plots for the generated input values. Navigate to test/Inputs and run the command “python3 plotInputs.py -m”.

# Run
### Run a Testing Subset: 
- In the test directory, run one of the following testing subset files (HydraSubset.py, LargePtSubset.py, LargeFtSubset.py, run.py) with a selected version of R2U2.
- Run the command “python3 subset_script -v r2u2_version” where subset_script is the name of the script being run, and r2u2_version is the version of R2U2 being used.
- Output files will be found in the test/results directory
### Run a Report: 
- After running the subset through at least one version of R2U2, we can automatically check for differences between output files for different versions.
- Use the command “python3 report_script”, where report_script is the script corresponding to the subset that has been tested.

# Questions
### How do I remove generated files?
- Generated files can be removed by adding a “-r” tag to the end of a command that takes an argument. For example, running the command “python3 genInputs.py -r” will remove the previously generated input files. This also works for subset scripts. For example, the command “python3 HydraSubset.py -r c” will remove all files and directories in the test/results directory.
### What is a tmp.ftasm file? 
- This is an input file that allows R2U2 to be reconfigured without recompiling. It should be generated automatically by the prep script. If it is not present, the expected input file is probably not present, or the script is looking in the wrong place for the file.
### What is a ftscq.bin file?
- This file configures some of the memory needed for future-time temporal logic specs. This file is automatically generated by the prep script, so it should not be missing if other binary files are being produced. 
